Hey, everyone, and welcome back.
So in our last little lesson, we talked a bit about finding the right font and or a typeface and finding
the different font styles are going to work for you and testing out with elements.
And the next part is we're actually going to start creating a typography system.
When I approach a typography system, there's a couple of things that I do.
I have my font.
I have, like, ladle bowls over here.
I like to, like, use a headline find.
The stuff that you love.
I like to get a bunch of different things going here.
Let's actually get one for body copy.
So, like, we may just get, like, lorem ipsum, maybe like a three sentence paragraph.
Okay, maybe that's a larger paragraph and then maybe we have a little bit of a smaller paragraph.
So let's let's get that ready.
So I urge you, you know, design along with me.
Do your own thing.
Do what works for you.
It's all about having fun.
And just exploring all the different ways we can kind of built out a type system.
This is what I'm going to do.
So I have a bunch of things.
They all kind of look alike.
Now I need to think about the different types of content that I'm going to have in our mobile application.
We're going to have headings we're probably gonna have like subheadings Republicans have like body copies,
smaller body copy.
We're going to have labels for like inputs, we're going to have links, probably, we're going to have
hint, text.
And I start essentially thinking about all these different typographic elements, and I'm going to just
start kind of like mocking them up.
So 32 pixels is probably a good size, maybe like 36 for a bigger headline.
And for, like, some larger body copy I can do, like.
16 or maybe 20.
And I'll set that to like 115%.
I like to use like actual pixels for the line height.
I mean, you can do it based off of like a percentage.
It's totally up to you what you think is best.
So like, I'll probably do like 24 pixels, not 24%, 24 pixels.
And I think that's totally fine.
What I'll do is I'll also kind of like make it medium.
I'll bring this in.
This will probably be like my main body copy at 16 pixels and the line height probably around like 20.
Pixels.
And there we go, regular.
So we start to see how things may actually play out here.
I think right now we have some really interesting things.
I like to kind of try to establish some sort of visual hierarchy.
So the visual differences need to be obvious enough to instantly understand the importance of each element,
and that is key.
So, I mean, like if we're talking about like buttons, headlines, we're talking about remember the
elements that we made last time which were like prices and product names.
So we need to really think about how those different elements are going to look and how they're going
to play well together.
So I like to kind of start creating stuff like this to really establish like some sort of hierarchy.
And the next thing I'll do is I'll start to kind of assign some preemptive roles.
So I know this is like a heading, so I know like maybe there's a 36 pixel heading.
I'll probably have like a 40 pixel heading.
I like to use like a really tight line height because, you know, a mobile.
I don't plan to have these headings wrap.
You know, maybe this is like my h one.
This is like my H two.
If I'm thinking about like semantic handling of our our headlines.
What else is there?
Maybe there's a 32 pixels.
So I'm starting to think about all the different headlines I may have in the variety that really helps
me kind of start building out this type system a bit.
So for a 32 pixel headline.
What do we have here?
This is 32.
This is 36 and this is 40.
So maybe 36 is on enough variation there.
So like, I'll scrap that and I will go with like 32 by a 36 line height.
And while I'm kind of like assigning these rules, I like nothing is set in stone.
But what I can do is if I'm starting to really like the kind of the type scale I'm building, so I'll
just keep on going.
So if I go from like 32 to 28.
And let's create a couple more.
So I got 20 pixels, maybe 20 I like.
I'm just trying to create enough variation.
So that.
When you go down to like a lower size, it's enough.
Like contrast between the previous one.
We have 20 pixels and 16 will probably be the next one.
So that's good.
And what else is there?
Maybe like 12?
I think 12 is the lowest we'll go and we may not even use that, but I think it's good to just have.
Okay.
So you have all these we may use like extra bold.
So what I will do now is now that I know, like I have an H one, two, three, four, five and six,
I'll start actually assigning roles.
So I know this is going to be my H one and I'm happy with it.
I'm going to actually create like a style for it.
And what I'll do here is I'll actually go into my text little bar over here, go into styles, and this
is how you add a style.
So I'm going to create a category called headings.
This is just the formatting of it, all headings, and I'll just slash, then I'll name it.
So I'll call this like h one.
What size is this one.
I think this is 40 pixels or 40 pixels every 20, 40 pixels.
So there it is.
I'll create that style and you'll see that if I go into here or if I just click off and I just click
onto my canvas or my frame, I'll see all my local styles.
So there's one.
And the great thing about this is I'll just click this and I will go over here and I can just select
that style and now I can use that across my whole actual library.
So I can use that across like all my different types of like pages that may be linked to this, which
is amazing.
And I will do that for the rest of them.
So I will once again go headings.
I will slash and I'll call this like h two.
And this one is 32 pixels, I believe.
And there you go.
And it shows up right there.
So for body, I would do something very similar.
What I'll do is I'll look, I'll go into my styles and I'll type in body and I will say large.
I think this is 20 pixel.
I know that if I have a larger paragraph, I want to display a larger copy.
Maybe it's a quote.
Maybe it's like copy after a headline.
Not necessarily body copy that we read all the time and I will use something like that.
Same with this.
I will do the exact same thing.
So I will go Bodhi.
I'll call Bodhi and I'll call it Reg regular.
And this is 16 pixels crate style.
These are my textiles.
They're all separated based off of what I've created.
So let's go in here.
And when I go to select a textile, I'll see that now they're separated by body and headline.
So the goal here is to really try and create a bunch of different like roles that you're going to be
using for your type system.
So I like to use like a couple of variances of the body copy, so I'll just disconnect this class.
So detaching the style, I'll probably have like a 12 pixel.
12 pixels, smaller body copy, and this would be like 16 pixels in height and line height.
So really easy to read and I'll just create a style right there.
And I'll call it body.
How do you SM for small and I'll just say 12 pixels and there you go.
Now we're starting to create a bunch of different things.
I also think of like labels.
So if I just write.
Label.
I'll detach that again.
And if I think about the type of label we'll have, maybe it'll be like 12 pixels.
The thing about the label they'll have will be probably around 12 pixels.
So maybe it's like a bold and I think like it's not going to drop to a second line so I can leave it
at 100 and I'll just create a style for that.
And under that I may just call it like.
Text or miscellaneous or forms.
It really doesn't matter.
I mean, it's going to be what you're going to be using and what you're comfortable with.
So I'll call it label.
And I'll just say like 12 pixels.
So there we go.
Like we have a bunch of different like styles that we already created and it's like the beginning of
your type system.
I mean, nothing is set in stone, go through it, see what works best, and you can update these styles
all the time.
So if I notice that this isn't working that well, I'll jump into here.
And I will go to this little button that says edit style with my style selected and I can edit it up
here and I can change anything from like the line height.
I can change all the little details, like if it's an all caps.
And that is essentially the easy way to create a type system from scratch.
I mean, you'll have to go through different types of body copies that you think work.
Maybe there's alternate versions, maybe there's different headlines, sub headlines.
Think about the product that we're building and the different types of pieces of content that we need
and just keep on going.
I mean, have fun with it.
It's totally such a fun exercise because you can do what we did in the last lesson and start building
different types of like components, and you can really start to see the different types of things that
we're going to need in terms of typographic elements.
Go out there, have some fun, build your own type system.
At this point, it doesn't necessarily need to be so complex because we'll get into that even later,
but start having fun so that when we actually get into visual design and designing actual interfaces
with color and all our elements we are going to like, it'll speed up our workflow to use things like
our local styles.
So go ahead, create your own type system and we'll definitely use that in our next couple of lessons.